KANTO ORWA YAKU SAK NO
ARANKEP SINEP KA ISAM
"NOTHING COMES FROM HEAVEN
WITHOUT PURPOSE"
[dramatic music playing]
[narrator] Hidden somewhere in Hokkaido,
there's a huge amount of gold
that was hidden by the Ainu people.
[music intensifies]
I'm the Immortal Sugimoto!
I have to do right by Toraji.
I want Ume's eyes to work again.
[narrator] After surviving
the deadly Russo-Japanese War,
Saichi Sugimoto heads to Hokkaido.
Do you want to hear an interesting story?
Back in the day, there was a ton
of these gold pieces the size of beans
found in rivers all over Hokkaido.
Y'know, a real gold rush.
A group of Ainu secretly gathered funds
so they could start building an army.
[Ushiyama] 20,000 kan, in gold?
[Goto] Then, one night,
one man stole it all
by murdering every single Ainu there.
But right after hiding all of that gold
somewhere in Hokkaido,
the man was captured
and thrown into prison.
Noppera-Bo.
He inscribed parts of a code
to the buried treasure's location
onto his fellow convicts' bodies.
He tattooed them all.
After that, he told the convicts,
"Break out of here, and I'll give half
of the gold to the one who finds it."
[narrator] Sugimoto learns that
the only way to find the hidden gold
is to gather the tattoos
of those who escaped Abashiri Prison.
Soon, he was joined by Asirpa,
an Ainu girl,
and Shiraishi, an escapee,
in collecting the tattoos.
-[Sugimoto] I know it sounds silly, but…
-[Asirpa] I believe his story.
Aca was one of those Ainus
who was killed there.
I'll find out why
Aca had to be killed that day.
What really happened.
We'll find the gold, I promise you.
Right.
Kiroranke nispa!
-He was an old friend of Aca's.
-It's about Abashiri Prison.
I know what happened.
Noppera-Bo is… Asirpa's father.
The man intended
to give the gold to you, Asirpa.
[Asirpa] Aca…
[Inkarmat] Is it your father
that you're looking for?
How do you know Aca?
I won't follow any divinations.
Because I'm a modern Ainu woman.
[narrator] But Sugimoto and Asirpa weren't
the only ones who were after the gold.
Toshizo Hijikata had begun
gathering the escapees.
Always remember
that old men are survivors!
[Ushiyama] Are you planning to create
another Republic of Ezo in Hokkaido?
[Ogata] I think you could use a bodyguard,
like me.
[narrator] And the Seventh Division,
led by Tsurumi.
[Tsurumi] We'll take over the Seventh
Division and gain control of Hokkaido.
We'll form a military government.
This is your new leg.
[narrator] Hunting for the gold,
these two forces
also began to chase after the tattoos.
[Hijikata] We'll continue on to Abashiri
and meet up with Sugimoto's group.
I suppose we should get moving as well.
To Abashiri!
If Noppera-Bo is Aca,
then I need to see for myself.
If he really is my father, he'll tell me
everything that we need to know.
She deserves to know the truth,
no matter what it is.
[narrator] To uncover the true identity
of Noppera-Bo,
Sugimoto's group heads to Abashiri Prison,
where a fateful confrontation awaits.
So, when all of this is finally over…
that gold is ours.
[music fades]
KUSHIRO, 1907 (MEIJI 40)
[wistful music playing]
[Sugimoto] Mm.
[Inkarmat] Bright red, fully ripened
beach roses can be eaten just as they are.
Although, traditionally, we Ainu will also
simmer them and serve them with fish oil.
We call this time of year mawtachup,
"the month for gathering beach roses,"
because they're such
an important food source.
Sour.
So hungry!
I'm gonna need a little more
than beach roses.
[hysterically] Asirpa, hey!
Where'd you go?
She's catching a sunfish.
[Shiraishi] A sunfish?!
[Sugimoto] Apparently, in the summer,
they take naps floating on the surface,
so they're easy to catch.
I've sewn it back together
nice and tight for you.
Thank you.
[Inkarmat in Ainu] God of needles,
I humbly thank you for your help.
[Tanigaki] You've taken
such good care of us.
Both me and Cikapasi.
I should thank you.
When there's a man around,
I feel a lot safer.
Tanigaki nispa,
even though you're sometimes cold,
you reveal your kindness
when it truly matters.
[in Ainu] Are you two married?
Want some meat?
It's a sea otter. I just caught it.
But I live alone, so I can't eat it. Here.
-He's offering us the sea otter.
-[Tanigaki] This is sea otter?
I don't think I've ever eaten one.
Huh. Thank you.
The two of you must eat it alone.
[chuckling]
What'd he say?
Uh… I… I'm gonna go find
some more beach roses.
[man in Ainu] Weather's turning.
You should head back.
[Asirpa in Ainu] Okay.
Thanks.
[Shiraishi] Whoa!
[Ogata] Pretty rough out here.
[Sugimoto] There's a fisherman's hut
over there!
[Shiraishi whimpering]
[Sugimoto] Where's Cikapasi?
Went back to the inn.
Don't worry, Inkarmat was with him too.
[Shiraishi] Stop talking!
Let's go already!
[whimpers]
I do hope Asirpa's all right.
[Asirpa] Inkarmat!
Come here!
[Inkarmat] I hope they're all safe,
Tanigaki nispa and the others…
[Asirpa] Well, we should stay put for now.
Y'know if you keep working
when the thunder rolls,
it's bad luck
and something awful will happen.
-That's how the old saying goes.
-That sea otter, though…
I just hope they haven't cooked it yet.
[Shiraishi] So this is sea otter.
The odor sure is distinct.
Mmm! It's a gamey scent.
Doesn't taste bad, though.
It's kinda lighter than I thought.
This is hinna, though, right?
[ethereal music playing]
[narrator] According to Ainu belief,
whenever sea otter meat is simmered,
there should always be an equal number
of men and women in the room.
[gasps]
[grunts] This is getting weird.
No matter how I look at him,
Shiraishi is… infatuating.
[narrator] The smell
of simmering sea otter
is said to arouse
sexual desire so strongly
that a person left alone might even faint.
Inkarmat…
a while ago, you said…
you said some things about my dad.
Do you know Aca?
I know him well.
I was still a little girl
when I met your father.
The first time I encountered him,
your father, Wilk,
had just recently come to Hokkaido.
He spoke with a Karafuto accent
when he talked.
And just like you, he had blue eyes.
He told me he was born to a Polish father
and a Karafuto Ainu mother.
Before the Russo-Japanese War,
Karafuto was Russian territory.
I heard there were many Poles there
who had been oppressed by Imperial Russia
and exiled from Europe to the Far East.
Wilk, together with the ethnic minorities
along the Amur River,
waged a liberation movement
against Imperial Russia.
He fought, was wounded,
and fled to Otaru in Hokkaido.
Back then, I was telling fortunes,
wandering from village to village.
And he spent every day with me.
Wilk took in everything I taught him.
The beliefs of the Hokkaido Ainu,
the land, the language…
he embraced all of it.
[young Inkarmat] Yuk.
[Wilk] Yuk.
[Asirpa crossly] But I don't understand.
My father never once mentioned you to me.
He said my mom was the one
who taught him everything that he knew.
Why should I believe anything you say?
[Inkarmat] I could see why
he would say that.
Asirpa, your mother was
a very beautiful woman.
And after all, I'm sure Wilk saw me
as nothing but a little girl.
I wonder if he forgot about me over time.
[muted sound]
[moaning softly]
[whimpers]
Are you all right? Hey, Sugimoto! Ah!
-Ah!
-[button clatters]
-[Shiraishi panting softly]
-[comedic bubbling sound]
[Shiraishi] This Matagi hunter…
is way too sexy.
[Ogata moaning]
[sensually] Why is my head
going in circles?
[Shiraishi shrieks] Are you all right?
Are you all right, Ogata?!
You should lie down. We'll help you.
[Tanigaki] Ogata,
let's unbutton your shirt.
-I think you'll feel much better.
-[button pings]
-[Shiraishi] Get his pants too!
-[Tanigaki] Ah!
-[comedic boing]
-No! Strip him all the way!
[men groaning]
[Kiroranke grunting]
Kiro's so… [exhales lustfully]
[sensual music playing]
[softly] Hey, you… it's been a while.
[thunder rumbles]
[Kiroranke] I got separated from Hijikata
and the others in Asahikawa.
I went around the kotans asking about you,
then tracked you down here.
[Shiraishi sighs lustfully]
[gasps]
[Kiroranke] That's…
quite a smell coming from that pot.
The inmate called Noppera-Bo
is not your father. That is impossible.
Wilk is not the kind of man
who would kill Ainu and steal that gold.
But I'm sure of one thing…
Kiroranke killed your father.
[dramatic music playing]
That can't be.
What you're saying is insane.
This is not a divination. I have proof.
[Kiroranke sensually] Sugimoto… hey, man.
I know it's been a while
since I've seen you… [chuckles, inhales]
…but you've suddenly become
quite the looker, huh?
Oh, don't say that. [giggles]
Kiro, you're more…
You got so… so much more built
than before, didn't you?
Ahh. [inhales] Whatcha think, Tanigaki?
What should I do?
[Shiraishi] What should I do?
Yeah…
What should I do?
[men gasping]
That's it! No more waiting around!
Sumo wrestling.
-Oh!
I see now.
[dramatic music playing]
[flesh slaps]
[slap echoes]
[music abates]
[music intensifies]
[flesh slaps]
[music fades]
-THE ABASHIRI PRISON RAID-
[Kiroranke] Things got…
pretty heated back there.
[chuckling uncomfortably]
[Sugimoto] Let's keep this a secret.
[Tanigaki] Mm, yeah.
[footsteps approaching]
Ah! I see her! Asirpa, there you are!
Kiroranke nispa.
Now that we're all here,
Abashiri awaits us.
[Tanigaki] Wait a minute.
Before that,
I have something important to tell Asirpa.
I've agonized over when to tell you.
I came after you from Otaru, though,
to deliver a message from Huci.
Huci had a dream
that she would never see you again.
She's worried.
Ryu.
Huci.
It was only a dream, though.
Send her a postcard or something.
The Ainu have long believed that…
that dreams are messages sent by the Kamuy
when they want us to know something.
Huci told me once about a dream she had.
[melancholy music playing]
In her dream, many Kimun Kamuy gathered
around her daughter to send off her soul.
Then right afterward,
that was when my mom died
of a terrible illness, or so Huci said.
So… she knows that dreams
tell us the truth.
[Sugimoto] Hey, Asirpa…
should we go back, then?
Huci might feel okay
if she sees your face again.
I need to ask one thing.
It's just something I wanna know.
No, something I need to know
to move forward for the sake of my future.
[music intensifying]
Kiroranke nispa…
were you the one who killed my father?
[music darkens]
What's all this?
[Inkarmat] I have proof.
On these gambling tags, your fingerprints.
[Shiraishi] Uh? Fingerprints?!
The pattern of the fingerprints
of each person is different.
They've been used
in criminal investigations overseas
for a while.
[Kiroranke] Come here!
[Inkarmat] I collected fingerprints
from the men
at the gambling house in Sapporo
and requested a comparison.
It turns out
your unique fingerprints were a match
for the ones taken from a certain place.
The scene where seven Ainu were killed.
[dramatic music playing]
Wait, hold on.
Then who is the Noppera-Bo
who's in prison right now?
I don't know!
Could it be one of your little comrades
trying to fund the independence
of the Russian Far East
with the Ainu gold?
[Ogata] Hold it right there.
This woman's been in league
with Lieutenant Tsurumi--
Wait!
Genjiro Tanigaki,
did a honey trap really win you over?
Tsurumi was the one who gathered
the evidence left at the murder scene.
Which means Tsurumi is the only one
who'd have had the fingerprints.
Though I may have used the lieutenant,
it was only for my own ends.
[Ogata] She's quite the woman,
isn't she, Tanigaki?
[music fades]
So the prints were consistent, then?
And that information
was from the lieutenant?
If we start killing each other now,
we play right into his hands.
Shiraishi, you're the only one here
who's seen Noppera-Bo in person so far.
Was it really true,
like Toshizo Hijikata said,
that he had blue eyes, just like Asirpa?
I can still picture that creep.
But I never got a good look at the guy.
Everything was always
relayed through Hijikata.
Even the escape plans.
[Sugimoto] I guess there's nobody
left to trust, then.
So, what do you suggest we do now?
-We need to go on.
-[tense music playing]
Whether Noppera-Bo
is Asirpa's father or not,
once we find him…
it should all become clear.
And if anyone here betrays the rest of us,
then I'll just have to kill them myself.
[music intensifying]
[music fades]
[dark tone playing]
-[man] Hey, rookie.
-[footsteps approaching]
[man] Let's go.
What about that man has you so curious?
[rookie] Well… it's not too often that
you see a man with a face that terrifying.
Some advice I can give you as your senior.
When you start here,
the first thing anyone learns is…
"Noppera-Bo is not a man
you get involved with."
Just as I thought with that rookie.
He's an agent of the Seventh Division.
But this is my prison.
Anybody acting out of line
will get fed to the pigs as lunch.
I leave it to you, Chief Guard Kadokura.
So you want me to take care of the guy?
ABASHIRI PRISON CHIEF GUARD
TOSHIYUKI KADOKURA
[Kadokura] Hey, rookie.
Over there in the back is a wooden box
that needs to be taken outside.
[rookie] Understood, sir.
Oh, and leave your sword over there.
You're liable to trip and fall.
And then you'll be covered in pig shit.
Sir.
[tense music playing]
[rookie] Chief Kadokura?
Chief Kadokura!
Where are you?!
If you don't wanna suffer,
then stay put, and this'll--
[dramatic music playing]
-[flesh crunches]
-[groans]
-[groaning]
-[flesh squelching]
[music fades]
Chief Kadokura?
Where did you go off to?
SEVENTH DIVISION
TOKISHIGE USAMI
[tense music playing]
[quietly] Well, my cover's blown.
I must have underestimated the chief.
[hums nervously]
[to himself] Tsurumi's gonna be
furious with me!
[music stops]
Just as you ordered,
I've fed him to the pigs.
I've noted our rookie as "missing,"
and the records show that the inmates
were all killed in a violent brawl.
[Inudo] For the last seven years,
I've thought of you
as little more than a weak,
gutless little weasel with no balls.
Though today, I think… I may have to
slightly revise that opinion.
Well then, today is a special occasion.
Being honored like this
calls for red bean rice!
LAKE KUSSHARO
[hoots softly]
INN
[sighs] I'm heading to the bath.
I've touched bodies
of all kinds in my day,
but I've never felt muscles
as soft as this before.
My hands sink right in.
The body of a wild tiger
must feel just like this, I imagine.
[gasps] A natural gift.
It's remarkable. Wow!
Though what's even more strikingly unusual
is all this scar tissue
that's covering your whole body.
How is it that you're even able to walk?
Y'know, mister,
in Ainu culture, when someone dies,
they break their tools
and damage their clothes.
This practice is said to release the soul,
enabling the owner
to use them in the next world.
[masseur] Really now? That's fascinating.
If you want my soul to go on,
you better start carving deeper than this.
A person's soul only leaves
when this life's objective is fulfilled.
Sugimoto, the reason
you can't be killed when you're wounded,
is because your purpose here
is left unfulfilled.
[minimal music playing]
[harsh musical tone]
-There are bandits?
-[Shiraishi] Yeah.
The landlady warned
that around here recently,
there are tons of bandits acting out.
She was saying that
they tend to come at people in groups,
in complete darkness, without any lights.
And how do they do that, exactly?
[Shiraishi] Because these bandits
are all blind.
I've heard that a bunch of blind inmates
from Abashiri Prison
banded together
and started causing problems.
Seems coincidental. Why were there so many
blind prisoners in Abashiri?
Forced laborers from Mount Io.
Sulfur is a profitable resource, you know?
Inudo secretly lent the prisoners
to the mining company.
But… the gas spewing out
all over the mountain
apparently destroys the miners' eyes.
Many went blind,
and many lost their lives.
And those who went blind
were left in the mountains,
maybe because the prison
couldn't take care of them anymore.
The ones who survived
resented the mining company,
and they're said to still wander the area.
Also… and this is the real important
detail of the whole thing,
the leader of these survivors
is covered in strange tattoos,
and I don't mean Yakuza ink.
-Do you remember what his name was?
-Yeah.
His name is… Anji Toni.
[industrial music playing]
[Shiraishi] Among the miners,
he alone had coded tattoos,
meaning he wasn't thrown out
even after he went blind.
He broke out of prison
with the rest of us.
So wait, if he's blind, though,
how can he still be a bandit?
Anji Toni is uniquely skilled for that.
Through echolocation.
He's able to see anything.
-Echolocation?
-[Shiraishi] Yeah.
[dark music playing]
[music fades]
-[masseur sighs]
-[Asirpa] Will you be okay on your own?
Yes, thank you. I'm better at walking
in the dark than you, young lass.
Because we cannot see,
there are things that only we can see.
Oh, and… take care
if you think you hear geta at night.
Geta?
That's the sound of the blind bandits
who attack in the dark.
Everyone thinks it's the sound
of wooden sandals, but that's not it.
It's the sound of their tongues.
They see things from the echoes
of their clicking tongues.
[Asirpa] "Their clicking tongues…"
what do you mean?
[loud cluck]
-[menacing music playing]
-[gasps]
-[distant cluck]
-[Tanigaki] Hmm?
[gunshot]
[Shiraishi shrieks, groaning]
Yoshitake Shiraishi! I know you're there.
Talking about the mining company, huh?
They must have hired you
to get rid of us, didn't they?
No, no, no, it's not like that!
-[flesh squelches]
-Gotcha!
ABASHIRI PRISON ESCAPEE
ANJI TONI
[Kiroranke] Everyone out!
[Sugimoto] What the hell!
What is that guy?!
[Shiraishi] Just run! [whimpering]
Oh no! Which way was the inn aga--
[Tanigaki] Only Superior Private Ogata
brought a gun.
We'll never hear the end of that.
Inkarmat!
Tanigaki nispa! I heard a gunshot.
[gunshot]
Over this way.
Let's go.
Cooperation's our only choice right now.
[music stops abruptly]
[tense music fades in]
Sugimoto?
-Put out your light.
-Don't be seen in the torches!
[Asirpa gasps]
Damn it.
Even in the bath, he brought a gun.
[Kiroranke] I found this earlier.
If we get onto the lake,
they can't follow us.
Get on, hurry. What's wrong?
I apologize. I just… I can't swim.
And also,
I have a very bad feeling about this.
[loud clack]
If I wanted you to be dead,
I'd just leave you here
and let them kill you, okay? Get on!
[Asirpa grunting]
[Sugimoto] It's me.
[groans]
-[Asirpa] Have you been shot?
-It's all right.
If it wasn't dark, those guys…
[loud clack]
[tense music fades in]
[menacing whoosh]
The air reeks of blood.
[eerie gasp echoes]
They're checking the range!
-[groans]
-Tanigaki nispa!
[grunting]
[poignant music playing]
This was my mother's.
I want you to have it.
After you grow up,
as long as you're wearing this,
I'll recognize you right away
when we next meet.
Isn't it important to you?
Because you're an important friend.
Thank you.
But… I know that I will never
set eyes on your face again.
That is my fate.
That's what my dream divination says.
Goodbye, Wilk.
I hope you and your wife
will be happy together.
[gasping]
[both coughing]
-You'll be okay, Inkarmat.
-Tanigaki nispa.
[Tanigaki] Come on.
[both groaning]
[Kiroranke] Doing great.
You'll be okay. Just a little further.
-[gunshot]
-[groans]
How do they know our location?
Damn it all! It's already that hour.
If it gets any brighter out,
we'll be the ones with the advantage here.
[all panting]
Tanigaki nispa!
You were shot, weren't you?!
No, I'm fine.
It just grazed my ass.
[Inkarmat laughs]
Huh? Hey, are you laughing?!
If you were using my feelings
to protect your own,
I would say it was effective.
It still does hurt pretty bad, though.
[gentle music playing]
It turns out that fate can change.
[Kiroranke groans]
Sorry to kill the moment.
You need to run, though.
-We'll be the ones exposed this time!
-Ugh!
[dramatic rock music playing]
[loud cluck]
[gunshot]
[Sugimoto grunting]
[flesh squelches]
Sugimoto!
[gunshot]
[both groaning]
The mining company and Inudo
deserve to be punished.
[music stops]
Don't kill him, Sugimoto!
[Sugimoto] You sure as hell
don't have any noble cause.
Just a gang of thieving murderers.
We've never attacked anyone
who's not involved.
[groans]
You'll stop making that distinction,
soon enough.
Of course, you would know.
You're a killer, isn't that right?
I know it's true,
I can smell the murder coming off of you.
[loud bang]
Oh… who are you?
[Hijikata] It's been a while,
hasn't it, Anji Toni?
[gasps] I know that voice.
What the hell are you doing here?!
Warden Inudo and I are at odds.
[atmospheric music playing]
Young lady, we meet again at last.
Professor Penis!
Sugimoto. Would you leave him to us?
We'll handle the disciplining
of Anji Toni.
Only if I'm allowed
to copy his tattoo for our share.
You shouldn't only do bad things
under the cover of nightfall.
You'll never manage to escape the endless
darkness, if you keep going at this rate.
Oh man, gimme a break.
This girl… who is she?
Noppera-Bo's only daughter.
Huh.
He has a daughter?!
Huh? Achoo!
[menacing tone plays]
[Usami] Russian rifles were distributed
to all the guards at Abashiri Prison,
and they seemed to have
plenty of spare weapons and ammo.
Inudo ordered that
the inmates work at the sulfur mine,
and this seems to have been
the source of funds for the guns.
And, before you could find out
where the weapons were,
you went and blew your cover.
That's what it was,
Private First Class Usami?
-Tsukishima, sit him down.
-[Usami groans]
[industrial music playing]
Fake papers to get you in there
as a prison guard…
do you know how much effort
we went through for that?
Look at this mole… right there.
Right there. Right there. Right there.
I'll draw a body on it and have it run!
[cackling] I… I can see her running!
[Tsurumi] I can make
the other mole run too.
-Look at it run!
-[Nikaido laughing]
[Nikaido giggling hysterically]
[Usami moaning softly]
[Tsurumi] The two little moles
run as hard as they can.
[Koito gasps]
But… they'll never get any closer.
The distance between the two
is always the same.
[gasps softly] How sad!
I hear you got new intel on Sugimoto
and his group on the way here, though.
[moans shakily]
[gasps] So tell us, Usami!
Oh! I overheard something at the inn.
Although it seems they'd left already.
[Tsurumi] The Ainu girl was with them too?
Yes! Absolutely!
[Tsurumi] Well done, Usami.
-[Usami breathing shakily]
-[Koito gasping softly]
Hurry up and wash your face right now!
Is there a mirror around?
-[exhaling happily]
-[Nikaido quacks]
[Asirpa in Ainu]
♪ There are acorns on the ground ♪
Nisew means acorn.
[Sugimoto] So, how do we eat this?
They become sweet
once they're boiled and dried.
Around this time of year,
brown bears eat them a lot.
Sugimoto! You should get those.
Kutci. They taste wonderful.
[Sugimoto] Hmm.
And I think if I remember right,
you can use the vines for snowshoes?
-That's right! Well remembered.
-[chuckles softly]
Mmm! Kutci's amazing. Very sweet.
[Asirpa] There's plenty to eat!
But if you eat too many,
your butthole will get itchy.
[Sugimoto] Oh, really?
The more of them you eat,
the more itchy your butthole will get.
Look at that, Sugimoto.
-A brown bear's claw marks.
-[Sugimoto] You're right.
[Asirpa] Cise sirosi.
Hunters call it a "house mark."
It's a sign that there's a den nearby.
This time of year,
they eat almost nothing but kutci.
So sometimes there are bears
whose meat tastes just like fruit.
Shall we hunt one?
No, just kutci is fine.
[Asirpa] When it starts to snow,
brown bears start eating stuff
like the tough skins of kutci vines.
It's to plug up their butts.
That way, they're all ready
to hole up in their dens.
You really do know a lot
about nature, Asirpa.
[Asirpa] Aca taught me everything.
About the mountains and the Ainu as well.
Sugimoto…
I am feeling… afraid.
Ainu were murdered,
and the gold was stolen by Noppera-Bo.
What if he really was my father?
Asirpa, look,
we've come too far to stop things here.
And I'll stay with you,
right by your side, until the end.
[rousing music playing]
[music fades]
[Sugimoto] There are five watchtowers
on the premises.
And there were guards patrolling all over.
[tense music playing]
Abashiri is surrounded
by mountains on three sides.
In those mountains are 20 watchtowers.
And all the guards are armed
with Russian Mosin-Nagant rifles.
Defenses have gotten even tighter
since we made our escape from there.
Noppera-Bo is probably well guarded
against those who would come to take him.
[Tanigaki] The only way to get
to the prison is across the bridge, right?
[Sugimoto] Yeah, and the only way inside
is through the front gate.
[Shiraishi] Not quite!
The only way to get in
is the spot where security is light.
This wall facing the Abashiri River.
[Ushiyama] How do we get over the wall?
We're not gonna go over it.
We'll tunnel through underneath.
[music intensifies]
It's about time for the salmon
to come up from the sea,
so it's a common sight every year
to see the Ainu building huts
and fishing along the Abashiri.
We'll hide the entrance to the tunnel
with an Ainu hut.
-Here!
-Right.
[Cikapasi] Got it!
Okay.
-Here!
-[Kantaro] Thanks.
[Shiraishi] Kiroranke is
a combat engineer.
He has experience digging tunnels
at 203 Meter Hill.
We'll load the dirt
we dig out onto the boat,
dumping it bit by bit in the river
while fishing, so we won't get caught.
This plan only works now,
while salmon is still in season.
A plan to bust into the jail,
incorporating Ainu culture.
-It's a flawless idea!
-[Sugimoto] Shiraishi.
You really are amazing.
Hats off to ya.
Pew.
Escape King, it was the right call
to bring you with us. That's a great idea!
Pew.
Pew, pew.
[music fades]
Hey, you. You can't be doing that
out here, okay?
Just clean it up, all right?
[tuts, sighs]
Did you really have to go out of your way
to do this here? What were you thinking?
[tense music playing]
-More salmon, is that what you're saying?
-What are you talking about?
For allowing us to fish here.
We made a deal. I'm supposed to give you
three salmon a day.
Ask this guard here.
-[man] Huh?
-[Kadokura] Really now.
Have you been taking bribes?
-Well, you know…
-[Kadokura sighs]
-Five salmon, new deal.
-What?
You understand?
Let's go.
Please don't tell Warden Inudo about this.
Of course I won't, you moron.
[gentle music playing]
[speaking Ainu] Look at the size of it.
Thank goodness Huci's baby sister
lives close to here.
It helps that the young lady
has so much family.
By tomorrow, the tunnel will be done.
Before we battle,
let's get some good rest while we can.
[Shiraishi] I need food!
[weakly] Salmon sounds good.
[Asirpa] For the Ainu, salmon is sipe.
It's such an important staple
that it's called "the true food."
That's why it's always very important
we use every part of the salmon.
We even eat the part
in the middle of the upper jaw,
the head cartilage called kakaw.
There's a dish that uses
all of this I know. Sugimoto…
Do you know what it is?
-[percussive music playing]
-Huh?
Oh my God, is it…
Citatap.
Yes, of course it's citatap!
Citatap was first made
from salmon before anything else.
The citatap that started citatap!
You citatap the kakaw and the gills.
And the more you citatap it,
the better it tastes.
Say "citatap," Kantaro.
Asirpa's house has rules, you know?
[gentle tapping]
C… citatap, citatap.
Can I citatap it using this?
Using what?!
Citatap. Citatap.
-Citatap, citatap.
-Citatap citatap.
-Citatap.
Ogata! We're all saying "citatap" now.
[Hijikata] Citatap, citatap, citatap.
That's so strange. I can't hear anything.
If you don't say "citatap"
when you're making the real thing,
when will you say it?
Well, I thought we would all
work together as a team by now, but…
Citatap.
[comedic flourish]
He said it!
You heard that?!
We got a "citatap" out of Ogata!
[music stops]
[somber music playing]
[Asirpa] Add the milt
and mince it even more finely,
then finally, mix in the crushed
grilled kelp and season with salt.
And that's how you make this meal.
We grill the meat on skewers.
We serve it with rice and millet porridge,
with salmon roe, ciporsayo,
mashed potatoes boiled in salted water,
mixed with salmon roe, and cipor rataskep.
Those are all delicacies of the season.
Mmm.
Mmm! It's so soft and smooth.
This is the real citatap, huh?
[Shiraishi] Mmm!
It's not fishy at all. Delicious!
When they're freshly caught,
they don't smell.
Hinna, hinna.
These skewers are real nice and fatty too!
[Ushiyama] Mmm. Mmm.
It's really delicious.
Ienaga, do you want the salmon eyeball?
You like licking eyeballs, don't you?
[Ienaga] chuckles softly]
Inkarmat.
Do you… have a special someone? Hmm?
Here.
What are you doing, Cikapasi?
When a woman goes to a man's house
and cooks for him,
the man gives her the bowl
after he's eaten half of it.
If she finishes all of it,
their marriage starts right then.
So why not become a real family?
[Tanigaki] Cikapasi. Give it back.
Whoopsie!
A bit in the delicate stages still.
-[chuckling]
-[music fades]
Um… Tanigaki nispa.
You've always been looking
at Abashiri Prison
from across the river, right?
I heard that you have a history
with Asirpa's father.
Asirpa must have told you that, right?
Even though you said
that Noppera-Bo is not Wilk,
somewhere in your mind
you still hope you'll see him again.
That's why you came here, right?
Yes, you're right.
Even though my divination told me
that I would never see him again.
And that's because
what I saw was my death.
I will die in the east of Hokkaido,
before I can see him again.
When I was drowning in the lake,
I knew that my divination
was coming to pass.
That I was destined to die.
Yet, somehow…
Tanigaki nispa,
you were able to overturn my divination.
Now I believe again…
that fate can be changed.
It might sound quite strange,
and you may not understand, but…
right now, the thing I want the most
is to meet with Wilk once again.
But it isn't that I'm wanting
to see someone I love.
I was stuck in my beautiful past.
I want to bring closure
to the journey I've been on until now.
If I could see Wilk one more time,
it would be proof
that my fate really has changed.
And then whatever the future will bring,
I want to find out with you by my side.
[Tanigaki] I still have a duty
left to fulfill.
And that is to return Asirpa
safely to Huci.
[slow footsteps]
[Tanigaki] But when the time comes,
I will properly hand you my bowl
after I've eaten half of what's in it.
Ugh!
He's eating Tanigaki nispa's food
from his bowl!
Ugh!
[dark tone playing]
[metal rattling, clanking]
[footsteps approaching]
[tense music fading in]
[prisoner] Mr. Kadokura.
Is that guy Noppera-Bo?
There's a rumor going around
that the Seventh Division is after him.
They say, "When the soldiers
attack the prison,
they'll kill all the prisoners
to wipe out the evidence."
Then, I'll give you guns
when that happens,
so you boys can go ahead and fight back.
[Sugimoto sighs] Hey, Kiroranke.
Where the hell does this go?
If we pop our heads out
in the middle of a party of prison guards,
we're screwed.
[laughs] We've dug
where Hijikata told us to.
We just need to trust him.
[rodent squeaking]
[music intensifies]
-[music fades]
-[Sugimoto] Huh?
Hello there.
You're right on time.
[Kadokura] The warden position
is typically held
by people from the Fukuoka
or Chōshū domains.
In other words, they're people
from the new Meiji government.
But someone like myself,
on the other hand,
a local, will only get hired as a guard.
Back in the day,
Hijikata and my father fought together
in the army of the old shogunate.
Though, if our plan fails,
this tunnel
will be discovered immediately,
and you'll end up a wanted man.
If and when that occurs,
I'll come with you.
I think my late father would be pleased.
If you had an insider like this all along,
you should have told us sooner.
Noppera-Bo is under the warden's orders,
transferred every day
to a different solitary cell.
Though I can accurately guess
where he'll get transferred.
So, when do we go?
A dark, unlit night.
The night of the next new moon.
[Kadokura] On the night
of the next new moon,
Noppera-Bo will get transferred
to a cell right here.
Block four, cell 66.
And this, right here, is the key.
[Shiraishi] Yeah!
Well, since we're not
breaking out this time,
it's way easier.
We just simply sneak in
without anyone noticing,
and Asirpa meets up with Noppera-Bo.
Now, supposing he really,
truly is your father,
we can just have him tell us
where the gold is.
That's just a perk, though.
The real reward?
We finally get to see him.
And then, if we quietly slip out…
Great success!
-Won't it be hard to get him out?
-He has a severed Achilles tendon.
He can probably barely stand.
If he really is the man
who killed all those Ainu,
then we shouldn't risk it,
trying to get him out of prison
where he belongs.
Quit eavesdropping
and make yourself known.
[dark electronic music fades in and out]
[Hijikata] That Seventh Division commander
who killed himself,
I hear you're the son of his concubine.
And that you deserted
just to get your hands on some gold bars.
Your background,
I have to say, is concerning.
You think that I'd go through
all this trouble to screw with the army?
That sounds like too much effort.
Are you telling me that
you suddenly trust one another implicitly?
Don't worry about it, Asirpa.
I swear to you,
we'll make sure you get to see him.
[menacing music fades in]
[Sugimoto] Inkarmat, Cikapasi, Nagakura,
and Ienaga will wait in the kotan.
Ogata will be positioned in the mountains
to provide sniper cover
if anything goes wrong.
-Five of them.
-Uh-huh. Yeah.
[Sugimoto] Kantaro and Tanigaki
will wait by a canoe set for our escape,
just outside the tunnel.
We've got two more dugout canoes prepared
upstream and downstream as backups.
Kiroranke, Ushiyama,
and Hijikata will wait in the quarters.
[music intensifies]
[Sugimoto] Asirpa, Shiraishi, and I
will push through the darkness
and infiltrate the main cellblock.
Guiding our group… is Anji Toni.
[Toni] The sound of the wind is strong,
but I can still tell where
the surrounding buildings are located.
It should also drown out the echo
of my tongue carrying off in the distance.
[Sugimoto] Okay. Let's go.
[suspenseful music playing]
[loud cluck]
-[man 1] Oh!
-[man 2] Who are you?
[grunting]
[Shiraishi] Toni, you ass.
Have wax in your ears?
[Sugimoto] We were exposed right away!
[Toni] Not my fault you guys
immediately stepped into the light!
[Kiroranke] I'll handle things here.
You go.
-Not off to the best start here.
-Sh!
[Sugimoto] Where's block four?
Pew.
[suspenseful music playing]
[Shiraishi] The five-winged,
radial, single-story cell house.
It can hold over 700 prisoners.
At its center is a guard post,
from which the entire block
can be seen from a single point.
There are three guards on duty at night.
Lucky that one of them is Mr. Kadokura.
[music stops]
[tense music fades in]
[music intensifies]
-The wind is quite strong tonight.
-[man 1] I made some tea.
[Kadokura] Ah.
-[man 1] What happened?
-[Kadokura] Oh dear!
I've dropped my tea! Mm.
-[man 2] Did it get on you?
-[Kadokura] I'm so sorry.
My precious teacup!
[music intensifies]
CELL 66
[music abates]
Aca…
[door creaks]
[Asirpa] Aca?
Aca, is that you?
It's me. Asirpa.
Here to see you from Otaru.
[gasps] A… Asir…
[shrieking]
[menacing music playing]
That's not him.
That's not Aca.
-Intruder!
-[man 1] Sir!
-[dramatic music playing]
-Ow, hot!
-Emergency positions! Hurry!
-[man 2] Right!
[man 3] There's an intruder!
Arm yourselves!
[man 4] Into position!
Intruder in block four.
Go tell Warden Inudo.
-Hurry!
-Yes, sir!
-Hey, have you seen Hijikata?
-He's not here?
Could it be that we were all…
tricked by that old man?
[Noppera-Bo shrieks]
[Shiraishi] What the hell?!
[Sugimoto] Asirpa!
Sugimoto!
[Noppera-Bo shrieking]
So it looks like we'll be stuck here
for a while then.
Warden Inudo! Intruder in cellblock four!
[Inudo] So I guess the little alarm
I set up went off then.
Argh!
[grunting]
Quiet!
If he's not Asirpa's father,
then Inkarmat was probably…
[Sugimoto] Were you working
with Kiroranke?
[grunting]
Ugh! All right, who are you, then?
Are you some lookalike?
I really don't know.
We've definitely all been tricked, though.
[music intensifies]
Inkarmat, what's going on?
Tanigaki nispa, you need to run!
If you stay,
you're gonna be caught up in all of this!
[Asirpa] Hold on!
What about Sugimoto and Shiraishi!?
-I'm taking you to the real one.
-What are you saying?
Oh! Th… They're here! They're here!
No way.
The Seventh Division is really here!
Moving in formation this way!
From the other side of the river!
The Seventh Division?
They're marching with torches!
[man 1] Go report to Warden Inudo!
[man 2] Right!
[man 3] Intruder in the cellblock! Hurry!
[man 4] Let's go!
[man 2] Urgent report!
Urgent report. [panting]
Hundreds of lights are closing in
on the bridge, sir!
It's the Seventh Division!
Calm yourself.
Just do it the way that I trained you to.
[dramatic music playing]
-[man 5] Move out! Machine guns forward!
-[man 6] Weapons at the ready!
[man 7] Hurry with the detonator!
Look out for the wires!
[man 8] Hurry with the machine guns!
Get the ammo too!
-[man 9] Rifle squad, assemble!
-[squad] Sir!
They've finally come to claim Noppera-Bo.
[man 10] Ready charges?
[music stops]
[man 10] Ignite!
What the…
[all gasp]
[suspenseful music fading in]
[Tanigaki] The bridge!
Are we really under attack
by the Seventh Division?
Hey! What's going on?
[man 1] The Seventh Division's here
to kill us!
[man 2] They're going to wipe us all out!
[man 3] Open the door!
Inkarmat. How did you know?
I told them.
I was the one
who was relaying today's plan
to Lieutenant Tsurumi.
[tense music building]
[Inudo] With the bridge out of commission,
we should be able to buy some time now.
Once their soldiers break through,
start a crossfire. Let them have it.
[squad] Yes, sir!
We'll turn the Seventh into ground meat.
They've detonated the bridge, sir.
That's what I've been waiting for.
[tense music building]
[music intensifies]
The torches on the riverbank…
were just decoys.
So they knew what we were doing all along.
[sighs] The intelligence officer
shouldn't be underestimated.
[music intensifies]
All this time, you have been
feeding information to the lieutenant?
Tsurumi was hopeful
that Sugimoto and the others
would be successful in their plan.
That plan seems to have failed.
Now that it's come to this,
Noppera-Bo and Asirpa's only hope
of getting out of here safely
is Lieutenant Tsurumi.
-[man 1] Cannon to the right.
-[man 2] To the right! Aye aye!
[man 3] Load high-explosive shells!
[man 4] Aye aye!
Hey! Something is coming!
[man 5] Target!
Center, outer wall of the prison!
Two-two-two-five. Fire!
[Tanigaki] Run to the tunnel!
[man 6] Salute!
Fire!
[man 7] Fire!
-[man 8] Fire!
-[man 9] Fire!
[man 6] Fire!
[man 10] Fire!
[industrial music playing]
-[man 1] Fire!
-Ah!
-[man 11] Fire!
-[man 12] Aye-aye!
-[man 13] Aye-aye!
-[man 14] Fire!
[Kiroranke] Hey, it's coming down!
[shell whistles]
[both groan]
Sugimoto!
Don't you wanna see your father?
Fire!
At the back of the prison,
they have a destroyer!
[Inudo] These men have come
to wipe this place out.
If we don't fight, then no fate awaits us
but the god of death.
-[explosions in distance]
-Take them on!
[squad] Yes, sir!
The other two are missing. Where are they?
Inkarmat!
Please just run!
I'm not letting you die here.
[groaning]
[romantic music playing]
-Hey!
-No!
Ushiyama.
-[Kiroranke] Hurry, let's go!
-[Inkarmat] Ushiyama, get over here!
Please, just… take care of… one another.
[Kantaro] Ushiyama!
[Ushiyama] One, two, three!
[music stops]
-[Ushiyama sighs]
-[others] Oh.
Dirtied my suit, unfortunately.
Amazing!
-[suspenseful music playing]
-[man 1] One, two!
One, two!
-One, two!
-[Tsukishima] Lieutenant Tsurumi.
The people at Central,
what will you tell them about tonight?
This will be our account.
A report was received
that a riot broke out.
We heard that the prisoners
had overpowered the guards
and barricaded themselves
inside Abashiri Prison.
A request was made
for the assistance of Rear Admiral Koito…
[man 2] Fire!
…Commander of Aomori's
Ominato Guard District.
Understood!
[Tsurumi] We brought the situation
under control after rushing to the scene.
[Tsukishima] If witnesses
from the prison side testify,
that report won't hold up, will it?
[scoffs] What prison-side witnesses?
[menacing music playing]
[man 3] Stop right there!
[Nagakura roars]
[roars]
-[man 4] Hands up!
-Huh?
[man 5] Fire!
[man 6] Right flank!
[man 7] Return fire!
[man 8] Counterattack!
They may be well armed,
but guards are guards.
They're no match
for those who know true battle.
Sergeant Tsukishima, now!
[Tsukishima] Sir.
Capture Noppera-Bo and Asirpa!
The Seventh Division is coming!
Open the doors!
We have to push through!
[Shiraishi] Quit joking around!
We're not all immortal!
[Sugimoto] What are you doing now?
There's a little narrow space
down here for ventilation!
Ah, ah!
"Ah!" Seriously, I'll make you be quiet!
Ah, keep a lid on it, you bastard!
Ah! Ah!
[music stops]
-Ah! Ah!
Did you know the Noppera-Bo
they hid in the cell was a fake?
Did Kadokura know too?
You knew and let Sugimoto
and Shiraishi go in anyway?
[Hijikata] Follow me, Asirpa.
[distant rumble]
Your chance is now.
[man 1] Move up!
-[man 2] Go!
-[man 3] Fire!
[Kadokura] What are you doing?
Hurry, fall back!
[Tsurumi] Forward!
-They're here!
-[shrieking hysterically]
[footsteps rapidly approaching]
-[man groaning]
-Where is Noppera-Bo?
[whimpering]
Usami.
[distant explosion]
[Noppera-Bo squeaking]
Immortal Sugimoto.
I'm not going unless Sugimoto's with me.
If he sees his only daughter,
Noppera-Bo would reveal
the location of the gold.
We all started this journey
expecting that.
Sugimoto too.
Asirpa. I'm sure he wants you
to see your father again.
Hijikata, where is Aca?
Stay right there!
[Tsurumi] Including the ones
I have slaughtering the guards outside,
I brought 63 subordinates with me.
Do you plan to escape from all of us?
I was thinking I'd give it a shot!
So, just put down your weapons, and--
-Nikaido!
-[laughs hysterically]
Let me go!
You said that I would get to kill him!
You idiot!
If you hit Noppera-Bo, what then?
[blood squirting]
I'm gonna blow his brains out
if you don't go!
You okay with that?
Chief Guard Kadokura?
-It's been too long!
-Ah!
Those moles, what the hell?
Don't they look good?
I think they're nice. I got them tattooed.
[Kadokura weakly] Rookie.
I haven't explained this to you yet,
have I?
[panting]
[metallic clanking]
[doors creaking]
This device was designed at Kabato Prison.
In the event of a fire, it's used
to let all the cells open at once!
[door creaks]
[doors creaking]
[Kadokura] Seven hundred
vicious criminals.
Do you think that you're ready… hm?
…to take them all on?!
[prisoners yelling]
-[dramatic music playing]
-Guns up!
Now exterminate them all!
Push them back!
Run them down!
[yelling intensifies]
[screeching]
[metal slicing flesh]
[Koito screeches]
Forward! [roars]
[Koito screeching maniacally]
-[flesh squelches]
-[screams]
Agh! Eh, oh, ah.
[Sugimoto grunting]
Old man Hijikata
must have screwed us here!
[Shiraishi] He had us infiltrate
the cellblock with the fake Noppera-Bo,
causing a commotion.
Then Inudo would head
to where the real Noppera-Bo is hidden.
This was all Hijikata's plan
from the start.
[Sugimoto] While Kadokura
has us pinned in the hall,
he'll reunite Asirpa with her dad,
force the gold location out,
and get out.
He's planning to use this
as a chance to separate us.
[Shiraishi] Why do that?
Because eventually,
I'm gonna get in the way.
[battle continues in distance]
[Hijikata quietly] There he is.
So it was the Lecture Hall, as expected.
Since he goes there daily for training,
I had suspicions that it was there.
Even after searching,
Kadokura couldn't find it.
There's a hidden room in there.
[tense music fading in]
[Asirpa] He's in there, right?
He's moving your father now.
We'll catch him in the act.
[music intensifies]
-[loud crack]
-[all gasp]
[man] Don't shoot! Take them alive!
Where has Asirpa gone off to?
-[comedic pop]
-Uh?
Did she run back to find Sugimoto?
She disappeared as soon as she found out
where Noppera-Bo was.
[growls] She's a shrewd girl.
[Shiraishi grunting]
[popping]
[high-pitched whine]
-[bones cracking]
-[sighs]
Okay, Sugimoto. You just need
to dislocate both your shoulders.
[Sugimoto] How do I do that?!
[Asirpa] Shiraishi!
-Asirpa!
-Where's Sugimoto?
Asirpa! Are you all right?
[battle continues in distance]
Take my hand, Sugimoto.
The real Noppera-Bo is
in the Lecture Hall.
[man] There she is! The Ainu girl!
Asirpa, go! I'll be okay on my own.
-[gunshot]
-Huh?!
I'll find my way to the hall.
-Wait for me at the main gate.
-I'm not going. I can't leave you.
Oh, man! We gotta go!
-Come on!
-[Asirpa grunts]
[Shiraishi panting]
[grunts]
[men scream, groan]
[poignant music playing]
I'll find Noppera-Bo, I swear.
Shiraishi!
Huh? Uh, what is it?
-[bones crunch]
-Oh!
Asirpa's in your hands.
Okay. [grunting]
I understand.
[panting]
Let's go!
[grunting]
All units, stand down!
[laughing maniacally]
[machine gun fire continues]
I am…
the Immortal…
Sugimoto!
[dramatic music playing]
-[flesh squelches]
-[man grunting]
[music stops]
[loud explosion]
[dramatic music playing]
[Nikaido] Argh!
-A-ha-ha-ha-ha-ha-ha!
-[Sugimoto growling]
[flesh squelching]
[Nikaido whimpering] Argh!
[grunting]
-[flesh squelches]
-[Nikaido groaning]
[music abates]
I can hear something from down below.
[Hijikata] As I thought.
[ominous whoosh]
Come out.
[haunting music playing]
If I hear Inudo,
I'll shoot out both his eyes.
[music becomes menacing]
[music abates]
[dull banging]
[menacing music playing]
Noppera-Bo.
[metallic jingle]
[loud rumble]
In death,
will the two of us part ways?
[dramatic music playing]
[both grunting]
[Nikaido screeches]
Argh!
Argh! Oh!
Ah. Ah. Oh.
Ah, ah, ah, ah, ah. Ah-ah-ah-ah!
Ha-ha-ha!
Hey.
[music abates]
[screeching]
Whoo! Eh!
[gurgling]
[shrieks, laughing hysterically]
Yeah!
[laughter continues]
[Sugimoto grunting]
Yohei! Sugimoto's on his way to you now!
-[groans]
-[squawks]
[squealing]
-[man] There he is!
-[Nikaido sobbing]
[music stops]
[Nikaido squawks]
[Inudo] Takeaki Enomoto,
a man I fought alongside at Hakodate,
now a noble viscount.
Toshizo Hijikata, on the other hand,
is an aging escaped convict.
If you had accepted a position
in the new Meiji government,
you never would've spent
over 30 years in chains, you scum.
[suspenseful electronic music fading in]
[shell squeals in distance]
You and your so-called "new government"
that renounced the shogun,
repaying any loyalty
with betrayal of the highest order.
Now you preach devotion to the nation
and to the people?!
How do you reconcile that?
Fool someone else with that wisdom.
[Inudo groans with effort]
[grunts]
[sound echoes]
[saliva splats]
[grunting softly]
Noppera-Bo… Asirpa needs to meet you.
Asirpa needs to…
[men groaning]
[mocking] What's wrong?
We're not done having fun tonight!
[Inudo] Beg for your life!
Attend to your duty and submit to me.
Polish my shoes every morning.
Serve your lord.
[Inudo chuckles]
[Hijikata] Afraid. Always afraid.
It terrifies you how the shogunate samurai
kept their honor,
always meeting death head-on
in the battlefield.
[inhales, exhales deeply]
The way even I,
a warrior with lowly peasant roots,
could maintain
what you've forgotten, loyalty,
until drawing the last breath,
back then and even now.
You and your kind never could stand that.
Isn't that right, Shirosuke Inudo?
Even if I have to sever your limbs,
you will submit!
[music intensifies]
-[music fades]
-[Inudo groans]
I have but one master.
I will not serve another.
Hijikata and Inudo
are in the Lecture Hall right now?
We have to go and back him up, Ushiyama!
[Ushiyama] Whoa, hey, wait a second!
[Shiraishi gasping]
Asirpa, I can't let you go.
I made a promise to Sugimoto.
[footsteps approaching]
[Inkarmat] We might get a better view
from higher up.
Inkarmat!
[Inudo breathing shakily]
[grunts softly]
[huffs]
[somber music fading in]
[Inudo inhales sharply]
Do it.
[weakly] The last of the samurai.
[Hijikata grumbles softly]
[grunting softly]
-[distant explosion]
-Huh?
[debris falling]
[tense music rapidly fading in]
Noppera-Bo.
Wait!
Do you recognize this?
Asirpa's makiri.
How did you get that?
Asirpa really is your daughter, then.
[Noppera-Bo] Wait… she's here?
Really here?
[Sugimoto] Come with me.
You're going to tell me everything.
[Noppera-Bo groans] Listen, the gold…
I'll tell you if you bring Asirpa here.
[Sugimoto] The gold?
[scoffs softly] Sure.
You'll tell me about that too, but…
I've had something to say to you
for a long time.
Honestly…
I don't think Asirpa should ever meet you!
[poignant music playing]
That girl…
she was terrified
her father could be Noppera-Bo,
the thief of all that gold
and the murderer.
You could have just told Hijikata
where the gold was hidden.
You could've gone ahead with independence
or anything else on your own.
So why did Asirpa need to be involved?
To entrust the future with her.
Asirpa was brought up to fight
in the shadows of these mountains.
I would see my daughter lead
the true people to their victory.
[music intensifies]
[gasps]
Asirpa! Noppera-Bo
and Sugimoto nispa are there!
An Ainu victory?
Don't be ridiculous!
A war for an Ainu-free state?
That's how you planned
to use your daughter?
Do you want her to be a murderer,
no better than you or I?
The fight requires someone to lead it.
But why does your daughter
have to lead it, though?!
Asirpa should be… [inhales shakily]
…in the mountains hunting deer,
cooking up their brains,
and pounding citatap.
Saying "hinna, hinna,"
not leading a revolution!
[Noppera-Bo] Sisam…
my girl seems to have taken
quite a liking to you.
That kimono…
Inkarmat!
Asirpa!
You've grown so much since then.
[somber music playing]
[Wilk] Congratulations, Asirpa.
You were fearless,
and your movements were precise.
Even though you're still so small,
you fought bravely
and took down a brown bear.
You've made me proud today.
-Asirpa.
-[Noppera-Bo] Asirpa.
-You really are my girl.
-[Noppera-Bo] You really are my girl.
The future of the Ainu is in your hands.
So, Asirpa,
that man is your father?
That's Aca.
[Kiroranke] You're sure that it's Wilk?
[shakily] Aca…
How could you?
[no audible dialogue]
[Sugimoto] Did Asirpa see you?
What did her expression look like?
Does she know who you are?
I never killed any of the Ainu.
I wasn't the one who did that.
-[distant rumble]
-Huh?
Just tell my daughter, the gold--
[sound becomes muted]
Wilk just got shot!
[Asirpa gasps shakily]
-Sugimoto!
-[dark music playing]
[music intensifies]
Asirpa, run. Run away and don't look back.
Now, the key to the gold
lies within you alone.
The murders will begin over you.
A wave of killing.
[dramatic music playing]
-[Asirpa] Aca! Sugimoto!
-They're gone! Give it up.
They're not dead! Let me go!
They're right there!
-I can't leave them!
-[Tanigaki] Let me go.
Shiraishi, you stay with Asirpa.
-Go wait with the spare boat.
-Got it! All right, Asirpa!
Tanigaki nispa! You can't go out there!
-You'll get shot too!
-I'll come back for you!
[distant rumbling]
It was you.
You gave the sniper the signal.
[tense music rapidly fading in]
[music intensifies]
[gunshot echoes]
Keep it down!
If we don't act now,
then none of us
are going to survive through the night.
How could you murder Wilk?
-[flesh squelches]
-[Inkarmat gasps]
Ah! I'm sorry, I didn't mean to…
[both grunting]
[Kiroranke] Let go!
Why did you do it?
In Karafuto… he deserted his comrades
and abandoned us.
Wilk arrived in Hokkaido…
he was a changed man.
[music intensifies]
[Ogata] A little further to the left.
Matagi asshole.
[groaning]
[groaning continues]
[grunting]
Inkarmat!
Kiroranke.
Private First Class Genjiro Tanigaki.
-[music fades]
-[Shiraishi panting]
All right, there's the spare boat.
Huh? Where's Inkarmat?
[Kiroranke] Now you see
why the Seventh Division
seemed to be aware of our every move,
don't you?
We can't bring that woman with us.
[leaves rustling]
[Ogata] Get the boat out. We're leaving.
Tanigaki was taken
by Lieutenant Tsurumi and his men.
What about Aca and Sugimoto?
I got close to check,
and they were both already dead.
[solemn tone playing]
[poignant music fading in]
[no audible dialogue]
[music intensifies]
[music fades]
Sugimoto's death,
was that really unavoidable?
Noppera-Bo verified
that he was her father.
And then he said something
to Sugimoto right after.
Was it the location?
Does Asirpa know the key
to a code only she can crack?
Or could it have been about you?
[tense music fades in]
[music fades]
How's it feel now that
you're missing a part of your head?
The two of us are like
a pair of brain-damaged brothers.
Immortal Sugimoto.
I'm shocked.
Imagine a criminal like you
being such a skilled doctor.
Well then, let me tell you.
I've performed many craniotomies
as part of torture experiments.
Gradually, I cut up, roast,
and eat their brains, you see.
With soy sauce and ginger!
[tongue rapidly clicking teeth]
[licking lips]
[chuckles shyly] Also,
Sugimoto has incredible resilience.
That's really how he's here now.
[indistinguishable chatter]
Henmi Kazuo.
Nihei Tetsuzo.
You managed to collect them all.
Noppera-Bo and I were shot by Ogata.
The moment I was shot in the head,
I knew he was the guy.
[somber tone playing]
[Hijikata] How is he?
[Ushiyama] He's conscious.
But we could starve to death
before he improves.
Hmm. The soldiers'll have fewer numbers
once things upstairs settle down.
We have to hold out a bit longer.
So are these Inudo's records?
SHINZO DOI
[somber tone playing]
[Hijikata] More escaped convicts.
Ones we didn't know before.
These names are new.
At last, a small glimmer of hope.
Once we get out… we're moving south.
Where'd the others take Asirpa
while I was out?
[menacing whoosh]
Karafuto.
With Asirpa secured,
Kiroranke now has the key.
He'll join guerrilla soldier friends
he knows from his activity
in the Russian Far East.
Get me to Karafuto, then.
If we can rescue Asirpa
and manage to crack the code,
I'll just take the 200 yen.
That's all I ask.
I'm going with you.
I know Asirpa, and we trust each other.
If Sugimoto falls and is unable to go on,
I'll return her myself.
And what about Inkarmat?
I did promise her that I'd come back,
so she's not allowed to die yet.
Just do all you can
to bring her back, okay?
Asirpa!
You nibbled on my brain a bit, didn't you?
We still have things to finish
here at Abashiri,
so I can't be leaving here just yet.
I will be sending
an elite advance unit to Karafuto.
Sergeant Tsukishima,
Second Lieutenant Koito,
you will accompany them.
[shrieks] Gah!
Why do I need to abandon
the great Lieutenant Tsurumi
at such a critical stage?!
He asks why he needs to abandon
the great Lieutenant Tsurumi
at this stage.
Rear Admiral Koito,
your father requested it.
[Koito gasping in disbelief, moans]
[Heiji] Mr. Sugimoto.
When you love your kid,
you make them face hardship, sir,
do I have that right?
He might come back in a box, you know.
[Heiji] I'm prepared for my son's death,
whenever that may be.
In a war started by my generation,
so many sons of the people of this country
were sent straight to their end.
Just because I love my son,
I can't just shield him from danger.
I can't face the parents
of those who died in the war.
Mr. Sugimoto,
I think Noppera-Bo was
exactly that kind of father too.
If he had to tell the Ainu
to fight and die for their cause,
he would have sent his own child
to the frontline first.
I also know there's a world of difference
between raising a daughter just to use her
and raising her with genuine care.
[poignant music playing]
Let's go, Asirpa.
Asirpa's father told me that night
that he never killed
a single one of the Ainu.
Kiroranke and the others were traitors.
And despite it all, I'm still alive.
There's still so much
that I have to tell Asirpa
when I see her again.
[music intensifying]
GOLDEN KAMUY
[music fades]
[Japanese rock music playing]